---
created: 2023-05-18 09:46
run: 
piano practice: 
guitar practice: 
read: 
---


# Thursday, May 18, 2023

<< [[2023-05-17-Wednesday|Yesterday]] | [[2023-05-19|Tomorrow]] >>

---

## 📝 Notes

### Perturb-x submission to ICML
- boostrap
- intro: our method is simpler due to the following 
	- predicting differential expression rather than the expression simplifies the latent space.
	- not generative
- describe the architectures of the encoders and the decodrs


We consider the task of perturbation prediction in RNA-seq data, where the goal is to predict the effect of experimental perturbations (e.g. drug treatments, genetic knockouts) on 
gene expression levels. This task is important for understanding 
the molecular mechanisms underlying diseases and for developing 
new therapies. 

To address this task, we can apply machine learning methods 
to RNA-seq data, which provides a high-dimensional representation 
of gene expression levels across conditions. We can use features 
such as differential expression between control and perturbed samples, 
gene co-expression networks, and functional annotations to train models 
that predict the effect of perturbations on gene expression. 

One challenge in this task is dealing with confounding factors that may 
affect gene expression independent of the perturbation of interest. For example, 
batch effects or differences in cell type composition may introduce noise into the data 
and make it harder to detect true perturbation effects. To address this challenge, we can incorporate covariates into our models or use techniques such as batch correction or cell type deconvolution to remove these confounding factors from the data.

Overall, perturbation prediction in RNA-seq data is a promising application of machine learning in genomics research that has the potential to uncover new insights into disease biology and therapeutic targets.






## AI Tools for Literature Notes
- recast
- chatpdf




---
## Meta
### Notes created today
```dataview
List FROM "" WHERE file.cday = date("2023-05-18") SORT file.ctime asc
```

### Notes last touched today
```dataview
List FROM "" WHERE file.mday = date("2023-05-18") SORT file.mtime asc
```



### Tasks

### Next

```tasks
not done 
due before tomorrow
```

### Done

```tasks
done on today
```
